README.md, before:

# Binsta 📸

Binsta is a web application inspired by Instagram, designed for sharing code snippets. It allows users to create accounts, post code snippets, like and comment on posts, and more.

![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/simpelcity/Binsta)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/simpelcity/Binsta)
![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/simpelcity/Binsta)
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/simpelcity/Binsta)

![Bootstrap](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap-563D7C?style=for-the-badge&logo=bootstrap&logoColor=white)
![CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)
![HTML](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-323330?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=F7DF1E)
![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-4479A1?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white)
![PHP](https://img.shields.io/badge/PHP-777BB4?style=for-the-badge&logo=php&logoColor=white)
![Sass](https://img.shields.io/badge/Sass-CC6699?style=for-the-badge&logo=sass&logoColor=white)
![Twig](https://img.shields.io/badge/Twig-339933?style=for-the-badge&logo=twig&logoColor=white)

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Binsta 📸](#binsta-)
  - [📋 Table of Contents](#-table-of-contents)
  - [About](#about)
  - [✨ Features](#-features)
  - [📦 Installation](#-installation)
    - [Option 1: Clone Repository](#option-1-clone-repository)
    - [Option 2: Download ZIP](#option-2-download-zip)
    - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
    - [Database](#database)
  - [⚙️ Configuration](#️-configuration)
    - [✏️ Code changes](#️-code-changes)
    - [XAMPP vhosts](#xampp-vhosts)
    - [hosts file](#hosts-file)
  - [🪲 Issues](#-issues)
  - [🤝 Contributing](#-contributing)
    - [Quick Contribution Steps](#quick-contribution-steps)
  
## About

Binsta is a full-stack social snippet sharing application, built to let developers and hobbyists publish, comment on, and like short code snippets across multiple languages. It combines modern PHP backend architecture, a Btrfs-based data layer, and a sleek Bootstrap-powered UI with Twig templating for clean and expressive rendering.

## ✨ Features

- 🎯 **Clean Design**: A visually appealing layout that focuses on your content.
- 🔐 **User Authentication**: Users can sign up and log in to manage their profiles and content.
- 📝 **Post Creation**: Share code snippets with syntax highlighting and formatting.
- ❤️ **Engagement**: Like and comment on posts to interact with the community.
- 📱 **Responsive Design**: Adapts seamlessly to different screen sizes and devices.
- 👥 **Followers & Following**: Follow other users and see their activity.

## 📦 Installation

### Option 1: Clone Repository

```bash
git clone git@git.nexed.com:0191bd26-8ad6-775a-a3fb-8161a33b6a11/0191d5d1-b9ce-7ad9-9c76-6deeabe8482d/Binsta-ecd4ba913395-445dbf0a9680.git
cd Binsta-ecd4ba913395-445dbf0a9680
```

### Option 2: Download ZIP

1.  Download the ZIP file from the Bitlab repository.
2.  Extract the contents to your desired location.
3.  Navigate to the project location.

### Dependencies

Install the necessary dependencies with

``` bash
composer i
npm i
```

### Database

Run the code in `migrations.sql` in your [phpmyadmin](http://localhost/phpmyadmin) to create the database, also run the `seeder.php` with :
```bash
php database/seeder.php
```

so that all data is inserted into the database.

## ⚙️ Configuration

### ✏️ Code changes

You have to change a couple of lines to make it work correctly,
`controllers/UserController.php`
  - lines `255` and `268` you have to insert your email address for the reset password function. 
  - line `256` you have to paste your google app password without spaces in between,
  - you need to have 2fa enabled on your google account to have access to app passwords. To make an app password, you have to go over to https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords and create one with the name 'Mail' and paste the password without spaces on line `256`.


### XAMPP vhosts

Add this to the end of your `httpd-vhosts.conf` file

```conf
<VirtualHost *:80>
  ServerName binsta.nexed.com
  DocumentRoot "<PATH/TO/PROJECT>/public"
  <Directory "<PATH/TO/PROJECT>/public">
    Options +Indexes +Includes +FollowSymLinks +MultiViews
    AllowOverride All
    Require all granted
  </Directory>
</VirtualHost>
```

and restart your XAMPP modules.

### hosts file

On Windows you need to add the domain to the hosts file, here's how to do that.
1. Head to `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts`.
2. Open the hosts file with a text editor with admin permissions.
3. Add this at the end of the file:
```hosts
127.0.0.1 binsta.nexed.com
```
4. Save the file with admin permissions. (If you're unable to open with admin permissions, click 'Save As' when done and replace the existing hosts file with the one you just saved)

## 🪲 Issues

1. Head over to the Bitlab repository.
2. Click on the Issues tab and then on "New issue".
3. Fill in what the issue is, and submit it.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit pull requests with improvements or bug fixes.

### Quick Contribution Steps

1.  🍴 Fork the repository
2.  🌟 Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3.  ✅ Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4.  📤 Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5.  🔃 Open a Pull Request

Commit message:

updated the reset password function, and added environment variables

README.md, after:

# Binsta 📸

Binsta is a web application inspired by Instagram, designed for sharing code snippets. It allows users to create accounts, post code snippets, like and comment on posts, and more.

![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/simpelcity/Binsta)
![GitHub issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/simpelcity/Binsta)
![GitHub pull requests](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-pr/simpelcity/Binsta)
![GitHub last commit](https://img.shields.io/github/last-commit/simpelcity/Binsta)

![Bootstrap](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bootstrap-563D7C?style=for-the-badge&logo=bootstrap&logoColor=white)
![CSS](https://img.shields.io/badge/CSS3-1572B6?style=for-the-badge&logo=css3&logoColor=white)
![HTML](https://img.shields.io/badge/HTML5-E34F26?style=for-the-badge&logo=html5&logoColor=white)
![JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/badge/JavaScript-323330?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&logoColor=F7DF1E)
![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-4479A1?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white)
![PHP](https://img.shields.io/badge/PHP-777BB4?style=for-the-badge&logo=php&logoColor=white)
![Sass](https://img.shields.io/badge/Sass-CC6699?style=for-the-badge&logo=sass&logoColor=white)
![Twig](https://img.shields.io/badge/Twig-339933?style=for-the-badge&logo=twig&logoColor=white)

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Binsta 📸](#binsta-)
  - [📋 Table of Contents](#-table-of-contents)
  - [About](#about)
  - [✨ Features](#-features)
  - [📦 Installation](#-installation)
    - [Option 1: Clone Repository](#option-1-clone-repository)
    - [Option 2: Download ZIP](#option-2-download-zip)
    - [Dependencies](#dependencies)
    - [Database](#database)
  - [⚙️ Configuration](#️-configuration)
    - [✏️ Code changes](#️-code-changes)
    - [XAMPP vhosts](#xampp-vhosts)
    - [hosts file](#hosts-file)
  - [🪲 Issues](#-issues)
  - [🤝 Contributing](#-contributing)
    - [Quick Contribution Steps](#quick-contribution-steps)
  
## About

Binsta is a full-stack social snippet sharing application, built to let developers and hobbyists publish, comment on, and like short code snippets across multiple languages. It combines modern PHP backend architecture, a Btrfs-based data layer, and a sleek Bootstrap-powered UI with Twig templating for clean and expressive rendering.

## ✨ Features

- 🎯 **Clean Design**: A visually appealing layout that focuses on your content.
- 🔐 **User Authentication**: Users can sign up and log in to manage their profiles and content.
- 📝 **Post Creation**: Share code snippets with syntax highlighting and formatting.
- ❤️ **Engagement**: Like and comment on posts to interact with the community.
- 📱 **Responsive Design**: Adapts seamlessly to different screen sizes and devices.
- 👥 **Followers & Following**: Follow other users and see their activity.

## 📦 Installation

### Option 1: Clone Repository

```bash
git clone git@github.com:simpelcity/Binsta.git
cd Binsta
```

### Option 2: Download ZIP

1.  Download the ZIP file from the Bitlab repository.
2.  Extract the contents to your desired location.
3.  Navigate to the project location.

### Dependencies

Install the necessary dependencies with

``` bash
composer i
npm i
```

### Database

Run the code in `migrations.sql` in your [phpmyadmin](http://localhost/phpmyadmin) to create the database, also run the `seeder.php` with :
```bash
php database/seeder.php
```

so that all data is inserted into the database.

## ⚙️ Configuration

### ✏️ Code changes

You have to create a `.env.local` file in the `/Binsta` folder, in this file paste these lines:

```.env
GMAIL_ADDRESS=
GOOGLE_APP_PASSWORD=
```

then insert your gmail address and google app password. To create a google app pasword, you need to have 2fa enabled on your google account to have access to app passwords. To make an app password, you have to go over to https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords and create one with the name 'Mail' and paste the password without spaces in the `.env.local` file.


### XAMPP vhosts

Add this to the end of your `httpd-vhosts.conf` file

```conf
<VirtualHost *:80>
  ServerName binsta.nexed.com
  DocumentRoot "<PATH/TO/PROJECT>/public"
  <Directory "<PATH/TO/PROJECT>/public">
    Options +Indexes +Includes +FollowSymLinks +MultiViews
    AllowOverride All
    Require all granted
  </Directory>
</VirtualHost>
```

and restart your XAMPP modules.

### hosts file

On Windows you need to add the domain to the hosts file, here's how to do that.
1. Head to `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts`.
2. Open the hosts file with a text editor with admin permissions.
3. Add this at the end of the file:
```hosts
127.0.0.1 binsta.nexed.com
```
4. Save the file with admin permissions. (If you're unable to open with admin permissions, click 'Save As' when done and replace the existing hosts file with the one you just saved)

## 🪲 Issues

1. Head over to the Bitlab repository.
2. Click on the Issues tab and then on "New issue".
3. Fill in what the issue is, and submit it.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit pull requests with improvements or bug fixes.

### Quick Contribution Steps

1.  🍴 Fork the repository
2.  🌟 Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3.  ✅ Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4.  📤 Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5.  🔃 Open a Pull Request
